Writing Bindings with NiceLib
=============================

`NiceLib` is the base class that provides a nice interface for quickly defining mid-level library
bindings. You define a subclass for each specific library (DLL) you wish to wrap.  `NiceLib`'s
metaclass then converts your specification into a wrapped library. You use this subclass directly,
without instantiating it.

Let's say we want to wrap a motor-control library and its header looks something like this:

.. code-block:: c

    // Example header file
    typedef void* HANDLE;

    int GeneralGetDeviceList(uint* devList, uint listSize);
    void GeneralGetErrorString(int errCode, char *recvBuf, uint bufSize);
    int GeneralOpenMotor(uint motorID, HANDLE *phMotor);

    int MotorClose(HANDLE hMotor);
    int MotorMoveTo(HANDLE hMotor, long pos);
    int MotorGetPosition(HANDLE hMotor, long *pPos);
    int MotorGetSerial(HANDLE hMotor, char *recvBuf, uint bufSize);


We could then wrap it like this::

    from nicelib import NiceLib, NiceObjectDef, load_lib

    class NiceMotor(NiceLib):
        _info = load_lib('awesomemotor', __package__)
        _ret_wrap = 'code'

        def _ret_code(retval):
            if retval != 0:
                raise MotorError(NiceMotor.GetErrorString(retval))

        _prefix = 'General'
        GetDeviceList = ('arr', 'len=20')
        GetErrorString = ('in', 'buf', 'len', {'ret': 'ignore'})
        OpenMotor = ('in', 'out')

        Motor = NiceObjectDef(prefix='Motor', init=OpenMotor, attrs=dict(
            Close = ('in'),
            MoveTo = ('in', 'in'),
            GetPosition = ('in', 'out'),
            GetSerial = ('in', 'buf', 'len=64'),
        ))

Then we can use the library like this::

    motor_ids = NiceMotor.GetDeviceList()
    for motor_id in motor_ids:
        motor = NiceMotor.Motor(motor_id)
        pos = motor.GetPosition()
        serial = motor.GetSerial()
        print("Motor {} is at position {}".format(serial, pos))
        motor.Close()

There are a number of features in use in this example: prefix removal, return value wrapping, array
and string buffer output, and `NiceObjectDef`\s with custom initializers. These make use of
settings, which you can read more about below.

Settings
--------
Settings, also called flags, give you extra control over how a library is wrapped. Settings are
scoped so that you can specify them class-wide, NiceObject-wide, and per-function. To make a
class-wide setting, give your class an attribute with one of the setting names, prefixed by an
underscore. For example, if you want to set a class-wide buflen, specify `'_buflen'`. Pass
per-NiceObject settings as keyword args to the NiceObjectDef constructor. For fine-grained,
per-function control, you may append a dict to the end of the function's signature tuple.

prefix
    A `str` or sequence of `str`\s specifying prefixes to strip from the library function
    names. e.g. if the library has functions named like ``SDK_Func()``, you can set `_prefix` to
    `'SDK_'`, and access them as ``Func()``. If more than one prefix is given, they are tried in
    order for each signature until the appropraite function is found. The empty prefix ``''`` is
    always tried.  Sometimes you may want to specify one library-wide prefix and a different
    per-object prefix, as done in the above example.

ret_wrap
    A function or `str` specifying a wrapper function to handle the return values of each library
    function.  By default, the return value will be appended to the end of the Python return
    values. The wrapper function takes the C function's return value (often an error/success code)
    as its first argument (see below for other optional args it may take). If the wrapper returns a
    non-None value, it will be appended to the wrapped function's return values.

    If you define function `_ret_foo()` in your subclass, you may refer to it by using the
    string `'foo'`. This works for any function whose name starts with ``_ret_`` that is defined in
    the class body.

    There are two wrappers that `NiceLib` defines for convenience (and may also be referenced
    as strings). `_ret_return()` is the default, which simply appends the return value to the
    wrapped function's return values, and `_ret_ignore()`, which ignores the value entirely
    and does not return it.

    Sometimes it may be useful to give a wrapper more information about the function that was
    called, like the parameters it was passed. If you define your wrapper to take one or more
    specially-named args, they will be automatically injected for you. These currently include::

    funcargs:
        The list of all args (including output) that were passed to the C function

    niceobj:
        The `NiceObject` instance whose function was called, or None it was a top-level function

struct_maker
    A function that is called to create an FFI struct of the given type. Mainly useful for odd
    libraries that require you to always fill out some field of the struct, like its size in bytes.

buflen
    An `int` specifying the default length for buffers. This can be overridden on a per-argument
    basis in the argument's spec string, e.g. `'len=64'` will make a 64-character buffer or a
    64-element array.

free_buf
    A function that is called on the pointer returned for 'bufout' argtypes, used for freeing their
    associated memory. It is called immediately after the buffer is copied to produce a Python
    string. It is not called if a null pointer is returned. May be None.

use_numpy
    If True, convert output args marked as 'arr' to `numpy` arrays. Requires `numpy` to be
    installed.


Class Attributes
----------------
NiceLib makes use of a few underscore-prefixed special class attributes. In addition to class-wide
settings, as described above, they include:

_info
    A `LibInfo` object that contains access to the underlying library and macros. Required
    (unless you are using the old-style `_ffi`, `_ffilib`, and `_defs` attributes)

Typically you will want to pass the relevant library attributes via a `LibInfo` instance created
via :py:func:`~nicelib.load_lib`. However, it is currently possible to specify them directly. This
was the original method, and may become deprecated in later versions of `NiceLib`.

_ffi
    FFI instance variable. Required if not using `_info`.

_ffilib
    FFI library opened with `dlopen()`. Required if not using `_info`.

_defs
    Object whose attributes are the Python-equivalent macros defined in the header file(s).
    Optional.


Function Signatures
-------------------

Function signatures are specified as (non-underscore-prefixed) class attributes. Each signature
consists of a tuple defining the input-output signature of the underlying C function. The last
element of the tuple may be an optional ``dict`` specifying any per-function flags, like custom
return value handling.

The basic idea behind signature specifications is to handle input and output in a more Pythonic
manner---inputs are passed in via a function's arguments, while its outputs are returned as part of
the function's return values. Take the simple example from above::

    OpenMotor = ('in', 'out')

This says that the C-function's first argument (``uint motorID``) is used strictly as input, and
its second argument (``HANDLE *phMotor``) is used strictly as output---the function takes an ID
number and returns a handle to a newly opened motor. Using this signature allows us to call the
function more naturally as ``handle = OpenMotor(motorID)``.

The possible signature values are:

'in'
    The argument is an input and gets passed into the wrapped function.

'out'
    The argument is an output. It is not passed into the wrapped function, but is instead added to
    the list of return values. NiceLib automatically allocates an appropriate data structure,
    passes its address-pointer to the C function, uses the dereferenced result as the return value.

'inout'
    The argument is used as both input and output. The wrapped function takes it as an argument and
    also returns it with the return values. You can pass in either a value or a pointer to the
    value. For example, if the underlying C argument is an ``int *``, you can pass in an cffi int
    pointer, which will be used directly, or (more typically) you can pass in a Python int, which
    will be used as the initial value of a newly-created cffi int pointer.

'bufout'
    The argument is a pointer to a string buffer (a ``char**``). This is used for when the C
    library creates a string buffer and returns it to the user. NiceLib will automatically convert
    the output to a Python str, or None if a null pointer was returned.

    If the memory should be cleaned up by the user (as is usually the case), you may use the
    `free_buf` setting to specify the cleanup function.

'buf'
    The argument is a string buffer used for output. The C argument is a ``char`` pointer or array,
    into which the C-function writes a null-terminated string. This string is decoded using
    `ffi.string()`, and added to the return values.

    This is used for the common case of a C function which takes both a string buffer and its
    length as inputs, so that it doesn't overrun the buffer. As such, `'buf'` requires a
    corresponding `'len'` entry. The first `'buf'`/`'arr'` pairs with the first `'len'` and so
    forth. If don't need to pass in a length parameter to the C-function, use `'buf[n]'` as
    described below.

    NiceLib will automatically create the buffer and pass it and the length parameter to the
    C-function. You simply receive the string.

'buf[n]'
    The same as `'buf'`, but does not have a matching `'len'`. Because of this, the buffer length
    is specified directly as an int. e.g. a 20-char buffer would be `'buf[20]'`.

'arr'
    The same as `'buf'`, but does not call `ffi.string()` on the returned value. Used for e.g.
    `int` arrays.

'arr[n]'
    The same as `'buf[n]'`, but does not call `ffi.string()` on the returned value. Used for e.g.
    ``int`` arrays.

'len'
    The length of the buffer being passed to the C-function. See `'buf'` for more info. This will
    use the length given by the innermost `buflen` setting.
    
'len=n'
    The same as `'len'`, but with an overridden length. e.g. `'len=32'` would allocate a buffer or
    array of length 32, regardless of what `buflen` is.

'len=in'
    Similar to `'len=n'`, except the wrapper function accepts an extra ``int`` argument specifying
    the size of buffer that should be allocated for that invocation.

'ignore'
    Ignore the argument, passing in 0 or NULL, depending on the arg type. This is useful for
    functions with "reserved" arguments which don't do anything.


NiceObjects
-----------
Often a C library exposes a distinctly object-like interface like the one in our example.
Essentially, you have a handle or ID for some resource (a motor in our case), which gets passed as
the first argument to a subset of the library's functions. It makes sense to treat these as the
methods of some type of object. `NiceLib` allows you to define these types of objects via
(suprise!) `NiceObjectDef`.

A `NiceObjectDef` definition is mostly just a grouping of function signatures, with some optional
type-scoped settings (`prefix`, `ret_wrap`, and `buf_len`). The `NiceObjectDef` constructor also
takes a few more optional parameters, which we'll describe below. When your `NiceLib` subclass's
definition is processed by the metaclass, a sublass of `NiceObject` is created for each
`NiceObjectDef` you created. These `NiceObject` subclasses can then be instantiated and used to
invoke methods.

So how does NiceLib attach a handle to each object instance? It uses the argument passed into the
`NiceObject`'s constructor. This gets stored with the object, and is automatically passed as the
first argument to all its wrapped C-functions, so you don't have to specify it all the time. It
looks something like this::

    handle = MyNiceLib.GetHandle()
    my_obj = MyNiceLib.MyObject(handle)
    my_obj.AwesomeMethod()

In a case like this, we can make object creation even nicer by using the `init` keyword in
`NiceObjectDef()`. The value of `init` should be a function which returns the handle to be used for
the new object instance. It may take whatever arguments it wants, and these are passed in from the
object's constructor. In our case, we don't need any arguments at all; if our specification looks
something like this::

    class MyNiceLib(NiceLib):
        ...
        GetHandle = ('out')

        MyObject = NiceObjectDef(init=GetHandle, attrs=dict(
            ...
        ))

We can then do this::

    my_obj = MyNiceLib.MyObject()
    my_obj.AwesomeMethod()

and bypass passing around handles at all.

To give your `NiceObject` subclass a docstring to describe what it is, you may pass this as the
`doc` keyword to `NiceObjectDef()`.


Multi-value handles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Usually an object will have only a single value as its handle, like an ID. In the unusual case that
you have functions which take more than one value which act as a collective 'handle', you should
specify this number as `n_handles` when calling `NiceObjectDef()`.


Auto-Generating Bindings
------------------------

If nicelib is able to parse your library's headers successfully, you can generate a convenient
binding skeleton using `generate_bindings()`.
