Preston
=======

Summary
-------

Preston is a Python library for accessing EVE Online's CREST API.

Installation
------------

From `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/>`__:

.. code:: bash

    pip install preston

Initialization
--------------

.. code:: python

    from preston.crest import Preston
    # or
    from preston.xmlapi import Preston


    preston = Preston()

CREST
-----

Attributes and calls
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Calling
-  on ``preston.Preston``: reload the base URL data

   -  ``preston()`` -> the same ``preston.Preston``

-  on ``preston.APIElement``: navigate to a new page

   -  ``preston.foo()`` -> ``preston.APIElement``

-  Getting attribute by text or item by index
-  from ``preston.Preston``: return a data subset or navigate to a new
   page

   -  ``preston.foo`` -> ``str``, ``int``, ``float``,
      ``preston.APIElement`` of data subset, ``preston.APIElement`` to
      new page

-  from ``preston.APIElement``: return a data subset

   -  ``preston.foo.bar`` -> ``str``, ``int``, ``float``,
      ``preston.APIElement``

To reduce typing, ``preston.Preston.__getattr__`` combines the
functionality of ``preston.APIElement.__getattr__`` and
``preston.APIElement.__call__`` so that calls can be made like
``preston.foo`` instead of ``preston().foo``.

If you wanted to access the X position of the Kimoto constellation, the
call would be:

.. code:: python

    preston.constellations().items.find(name='Kimotoro')().position.x

From the `base url <https://crest-tq.eveonline.com/>`__ "constellations"
is a root-level dictionary item with a "href" item, which can be called
to navigate to `that
page <https://crest-tq.eveonline.com/constellations/>`__.

From there, the ``.items`` attribute dives into the ``items`` dictionary
key and then a ``find`` method is used to get an element from the list
of dictionaries (you could loop through the items yourself, but ``find``
is for convenience). This dictionary has a "href" element, so call the
attribute to navigate
`there <https://crest-tq.eveonline.com/constellations/20000020/>`__.

Now on the final page, access the "position" key and finally its "x"
key, which is ``-134996400468185440``.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

1. Market types -> page count

.. code:: python

    preston.marketTypes().pageCount

2. "Jump Through a Wormhole" opportunity description

.. code:: python

    preston.opportunities.tasks().items.find(name='Jump Through a Wormhole').description

3. Jita 4-4 moon name

.. code:: python

    preston.systems().items.find(name='Jita')().planets[3].moons[3]().name

Using the cache
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you make a call to ``preston.foo``, the root CREST URL data stored
locally will be checked for an expired cache timer (the root URL's data
is loaded when instantiating a new ``preston.Preston`` object, you don't
need to do it manually). If it's expired, the root URL will be gotten
anew and cached. This is similar for ``preston.foo().bar().baz()`` - if
all of ``foo``, ``bar``, and ``baz`` were dictionaries with ``'href'``
keys that pointed to new pages, each would use the cache to retrieve the
page, only making a new request to CREST if the local copy of the page
is either non-existent or expired.

However, when getting attributes from a page, like
``preston.foo().bar.baz``, neither ``bar`` or ``baz`` on the page will
be using the cache. Thus, in order to make the same call multiple times
over a period of time and using the cache, either make the full
``preston.foo().bar.baz`` call again, or save the last-called element as
a local variable and call that:

.. code:: python

    foo = preston.foo

    print(foo().bar.baz)

    # later:
    print(foo().bar.baz)

    # later:
    print(foo().bar.baz)

Authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Accessing the authenticated parts of CREST is done through
authenticating Preston:

.. code:: python

    from preston import *

    preston = Preston(client_id='', client_secret='', client_callback='')
    preston.get_authorize_url()
    auth = preston.authenticate(code)

In the code above, ``get_authorize_url`` returns a URL to redirect a web
app client to so they can log into EVE's SSO. Once they've redirected
back to your web application, pass the code in the returning URL from
EVE to the ``authenticate`` call and assign the resulting
``preston.AuthPreston`` object.

This ``preston.AuthPreston`` object works the same as the unathenticated
``preston.Preston`` object: use attributes and calls to navigate and
load CREST data, respectively.

Example of accessing a character's location:

.. code:: python

    print(auth.decode().character().location())

Refresh tokens
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you authenticate for accessing CREST using a scope, Preston will
get two tokens back: the access token, which is a temporary (20 minutes)
token used for accessing CREST, and a refresh token that doesn't expire
but cannot be used to directly access CREST. When the access token
expires, Preston will get another access token from CREST using the
refresh token.

Since the refresh token doesn't expire, you'll want to keep that
somewhere safe. Preston doesn't handle this for you.

To start an authenticated session with Preston using a
previously-fetched refresh token (you can get the existing refresh token
with ``preston.AuthPreston.refresh_token`` as a ``str``), do the
following:

.. code:: python

    preston = Preston(client_id='', client_secret='', client_callback='')
    auth = preston.use_refresh_token('previous-refresh-token')

XMLAPI
------

TODO
