[console_scripts]
cosmic-ray = cosmic_ray.cli:main

[cosmic_ray.operators]
arithmetic_operator_deletion = cosmic_ray.operators.arithmetic_operator_deletion:ReverseUnarySub
boolean_replacer = cosmic_ray.operators.boolean_replacer:BooleanReplacer
break_continue_replacement = cosmic_ray.operators.break_continue:ReplaceBreakWithContinue
number_replacer = cosmic_ray.operators.number_replacer:NumberReplacer
replace_Eq_with_Gt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceEqWithGt
replace_Eq_with_GtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceEqWithGtE
replace_Eq_with_In = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceEqWithIn
replace_Eq_with_IsNot = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceEqWithIsNot
replace_Eq_with_Lt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceEqWithLt
replace_Eq_with_LtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceEqWithLtE
replace_Eq_with_NotEq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceEqWithNotEq
replace_Eq_with_NotIn = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceEqWithNotIn
replace_GtE_with_Eq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtEWithEq
replace_GtE_with_Gt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtEWithGt
replace_GtE_with_In = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtEWithIn
replace_GtE_with_Is = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtEWithIs
replace_GtE_with_IsNot = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtEWithIsNot
replace_GtE_with_Lt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtEWithLt
replace_GtE_with_LtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtEWithLtE
replace_GtE_with_NotEq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtEWithNotEq
replace_GtE_with_NotIn = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtEWithNotIn
replace_Gt_with_Eq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtWithEq
replace_Gt_with_GtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtWithGtE
replace_Gt_with_In = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtWithIn
replace_Gt_with_Is = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtWithIs
replace_Gt_with_IsNot = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtWithIsNot
replace_Gt_with_Lt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtWithLt
replace_Gt_with_LtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtWithLtE
replace_Gt_with_NotEq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtWithNotEq
replace_Gt_with_NotIn = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceGtWithNotIn
replace_In_with_Eq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceInWithEq
replace_In_with_Gt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceInWithGt
replace_In_with_GtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceInWithGtE
replace_In_with_Is = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceInWithIs
replace_In_with_IsNot = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceInWithIsNot
replace_In_with_Lt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceInWithLt
replace_In_with_LtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceInWithLtE
replace_In_with_NotEq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceInWithNotEq
replace_In_with_NotIn = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceInWithNotIn
replace_IsNot_with_Eq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsNotWithEq
replace_IsNot_with_Gt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsNotWithGt
replace_IsNot_with_GtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsNotWithGtE
replace_IsNot_with_In = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsNotWithIn
replace_IsNot_with_Is = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsNotWithIs
replace_IsNot_with_Lt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsNotWithLt
replace_IsNot_with_LtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsNotWithLtE
replace_IsNot_with_NotEq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsNotWithNotEq
replace_IsNot_with_NotIn = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsNotWithNotIn
replace_Is_with_Eq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsWithEq
replace_Is_with_Gt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsWithGt
replace_Is_with_GtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsWithGtE
replace_Is_with_In = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsWithIn
replace_Is_with_IsNot = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsWithIsNot
replace_Is_with_Lt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsWithLt
replace_Is_with_LtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsWithLtE
replace_Is_with_NotEq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsWithNotEq
replace_Is_with_NotIn = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceIsWithNotIn
replace_LtE_with_Eq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtEWithEq
replace_LtE_with_Gt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtEWithGt
replace_LtE_with_GtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtEWithGtE
replace_LtE_with_In = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtEWithIn
replace_LtE_with_Is = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtEWithIs
replace_LtE_with_IsNot = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtEWithIsNot
replace_LtE_with_Lt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtEWithLt
replace_LtE_with_NotEq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtEWithNotEq
replace_LtE_with_NotIn = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtEWithNotIn
replace_Lt_with_Eq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtWithEq
replace_Lt_with_Gt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtWithGt
replace_Lt_with_GtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtWithGtE
replace_Lt_with_In = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtWithIn
replace_Lt_with_Is = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtWithIs
replace_Lt_with_IsNot = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtWithIsNot
replace_Lt_with_LtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtWithLtE
replace_Lt_with_NotEq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtWithNotEq
replace_Lt_with_NotIn = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceLtWithNotIn
replace_NotEq_with_Eq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotEqWithEq
replace_NotEq_with_Gt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotEqWithGt
replace_NotEq_with_GtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotEqWithGtE
replace_NotEq_with_In = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotEqWithIn
replace_NotEq_with_Is = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotEqWithIs
replace_NotEq_with_Lt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotEqWithLt
replace_NotEq_with_LtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotEqWithLtE
replace_NotEq_with_NotIn = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotEqWithNotIn
replace_NotIn_with_Eq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotInWithEq
replace_NotIn_with_Gt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotInWithGt
replace_NotIn_with_GtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotInWithGtE
replace_NotIn_with_In = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotInWithIn
replace_NotIn_with_Is = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotInWithIs
replace_NotIn_with_IsNot = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotInWithIsNot
replace_NotIn_with_Lt = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotInWithLt
replace_NotIn_with_LtE = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotInWithLtE
replace_NotIn_with_NotEq = cosmic_ray.operators.relational_operator_replacement:ReplaceNotInWithNotEq

[cosmic_ray.test_runners]
nose = cosmic_ray.testing.nose_runner:NoseRunner
pytest = cosmic_ray.testing.pytest_runner:PytestRunner
unittest = cosmic_ray.testing.unittest_runner:UnittestRunner

